---
title: The Project Begins
author: temujin
categories: [sl colonies, the counter earth]
---

So those of you who have known me for a while would have been around while the Myrkvior Fjord build was around. You would have witnessed its every glory and beauty. I would say, Myrkvior Fjord was my best build to date. 

Over the years I have been refining my skills and learning new tricks during building which adds the finer details. I've also learned how to focus on sim performance by working with prims and mesh. Such things as improving a players frame rates by trying to work with Alpha Masking instead of Alpha Blending in areas that it makes no real visual difference. Other techniques like linking physical mesh to a basic prim and turning physical off completely on mesh where it is not needed. This technique in itself increases performance on a sim CPU level. There are many other ways to improve on performance both at a sim level and player level - such as reducing total amount of scripts on a sim and reducing their total ms hit on the CPU/Memory of the host.

Anyway, I am blabbering on. The point of the matter is, I learned these above skills more frequently and they had been weighing at the back of my mind for many months. How can I improve on Myrkvior Fjord to reduce sim lag and increase player performance. 

The first step was to remove the well know G&S farming system. The amount of script time required to run everything G&S was astonishing. We were at a point that we could not lay down one more script without causing lag across all other scripts in the region. So if I remove G&S, what do we use in Myrkvior Fjord? How will I keep my player base?

What have I always wanted to accomplish and what is my ideal RPG system that would work for me that I believe others will enjoy playing? What other systems have I used and what were their pros and cons? What RPG games outside of Second Life have I played and what were their pros and cons, what systems in those games really made for something interesting?

I could go on for hours, but you get the idea. I started on one end, went down the rabbit hole and have been coming out the other. I've a plan, a mission, a new build and a new system as my major project to bring to the Second Life community. 

I am bringing to Second Life, a new RPG world with multiple layers leading to various regions and zones of the world where players will be able to explore, roleplay, gather, farm, craft, combat and more. My mission, is to bring it all together and make it blend nicely that it all forms part of a unique and extremely immersive experience for all.

Let's see how it pans out! 